1>> Introduction :: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------->

Initially it was called Oak, in honor of the tree outside James Gosling's window; its name was changed to Java 
because there was already a language called Oak. Java is based upon the concept “Write once, run anywhere”. 
The idea is that the same software should run on different kinds of computers, consumer gadgets, and the other devices. 
Unlike most programming languages that generates executable code upon compilation; the JVM generates byte codes as a result of compilation. 
Java byte codes are form of instructions understood by Java Virtual Machine and usually generated as a result of compiling Java languages source code. 


Java Virtual Machine :: ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>

The JVM or Java Virtual Machine has an interpreter component that enables communication between Java Byte Code and a computer’s operating system. 
Using a JVM we can run a java code on any platform such as windoxxp, windox 98, unix etc. 
JVM normally reads and execute java statements once at a time. 
However a JVM can include JIT (Just in Time) compiler within it. A JIT compiler converts all programs to byte code and is thus faster than a conventional JVM. 


3) What makes Java, most powerful language ? Java Buzz Words :: ----------------------------------------------->

(i) Simple

Java was designed to be easy for the professional programmer to learn and use effectively. 
Because Java inherits the C/C++ syntax and many of the object-oriented features of C++, 
most programmers have little trouble learning Java. Also, some of the more confusing concepts 
from C++ are either left out of Java or implemented in a cleaner, more approachable manner. 
In Java, there are a small number of clearly defined ways to accomplish a given task.

(ii) Security

When we use a Java-compatible Web browser, we can safely download Java applets without fear of 
viral infection or malicious intent. Java achieves this protection by confining a Java program 
to the Java execution environment (sand box area) and not allowing it access to other parts of the computer. 
This control is exercised by JVM.

(iii) Portability

Many types of computers and operating systems are in use throughout the world and many are connected to the Internet.
For programs to be dynamically downloaded to various types of platforms connected to the Internet, 
some portable executable code is needed that can run on any environment i.e. the Byte Code.


 
(iv) Object-Oriented

Like C++ , java uses all the OOP concepts like encapsulation, inheritance and polymorphism etc. 
Java is called a purely object oriented language as everything we write inside class in a java program.

(v) Robust

The multiplatform environment of the Web places extraordinary demands on a program, because the program 
must execute reliably in a variety of systems. Thus, the ability to create robust
programs was given a high priority in the design of Java. To gain reliability, Java restricts us in a few key areas, 
to force you to find our mistakes early in program development.

(vi) Multithreaded

Java was designed to meet the real-world requirement of creating interactive, networked programs. 
To accomplish this, Java supports multithreaded programming, which allows us to write programs that do 
many things simultaneously. The Java run-time system comes with an elegant yet sophisticated solution for
multiprocess synchronization that enables us to construct smoothly running interactive systems.

(vii) Architecture-Neutral

A central issue for the Java designers was that of code longevity and portability. One of the main problems
facing programmers is that no guarantee exists that if you write a program today, it will run tomorrow, 
even on the same machine. Operating system upgrades, processor upgrades, and changes in core system resources 
can all combine to make a program malfunction. The Java designers made several hard decisions in the Java language 
and the Java Virtual Machine in an attempt to alter this situation. Their goal was “write once; run anywhere, anytime, 
forever.” To a great extent, this goal was accomplished.

(viii) Distributed

Java is designed for the distributed environment of the Internet, because it handles TCP/IP protocols. 
In fact, accessing a resource using a URL is not much different from accessing a file. 
The original version of Java (Oak) included features for intra address- space messaging. 
This allowed objects on two different computers to execute procedures remotely.

(ix) Dynamic

Java programs carry with them substantial amounts of run-time type information that is used to verify 
and resolve accesses to objects at run time. This makes it possible to dynamically link code in a
safe and expedient manner. This is crucial to the robustness of the applet environment, in which small
fragments of byte code may be dynamically updated on a running system.


